docs: Improve deployment docs on self-hosting. (#58027)
vercel/next.js: docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/08-deploying/index.mdx

{/* The content of this doc is shared between the app and pages router. You can use the `<PagesOnly>Content</PagesOnly>` component to add content that is specific to the Pages Router. Any shared content should not be wrapped in a component. */}

Congratulations, it's time to ship to production.

> You can deploy [managed Next.js with Vercel](#managed-nextjs-with-vercel) on a Node.js server, Docker image, or even static HTML files. When deploying using `next start`, all Next.js features are supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can deploy [managed Next.js with Vercel](#managed-nextjs-with-vercel), on a Node.js server, Docker image, or even static HTML files. When deploying using `next start`, all Next.js features are supported.
```

### Caching and ISR

Next.js can cache responses, generated static pages, build outputs, and other static assets like images, fonts, and scripts.

Caching and revalidating pages (using Incremental Static Regeneration (ISR) or newer functions in the App Router) use the **same shared cache**. By default, this cache is stored to the filesystem (on disk) on your Next.js server. **This works automatically when self-hosting** using both the Pages and App Router.

You can configure the Next.js cache location if you want to persist cached pages and data to durable storage, or share the cache across multiple containers or instances of your Next.js application.

#### Automatic Caching

- Next.js sets the `Cache-Control` header of `public, max-age=31536000, immutable` to truly immutable assets. It cannot be overridden. These immutable files contain a SHA-hash in the file name, so they can be safely cached indefinitely. For example, [Static Image Imports](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/images#local-images). You can [configure the TTL](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#caching-behavior) for images.

> - Incremental Static Regeneration (ISR) sets the `Cache-Control` header of `s-maxage: <revalidate in getStaticProps>, stale-while-revalidate`. This revalidation time is defined in your `[getStaticProps` function](/docs/pages/building-your-application/data-fetching/get-static-props) in seconds. If you set `revalidate: false`, it will default to a one-year cache duration.

Author: ```suggestion
- Incremental Static Regeneration (ISR) sets the `Cache-Control` header of `s-maxage: <revalidate in getStaticProps>, stale-while-revalidate`. This revalidation time is defined in your [`getStaticProps` function](/docs/pages/building-your-application/data-fetching/get-static-props) in seconds. If you set `revalidate: false`, it will default to a one-year cache duration.
```

> - Incremental Static Regeneration (ISR) sets the `Cache-Control` header of `s-maxage: <revalidate in getStaticProps>, stale-while-revalidate`. This revalidation time is defined in your [`getStaticProps` function](/docs/pages/building-your-application/data-fetching/get-static-props) in seconds. If you set `revalidate: false`, it will default to a one-year cache duration.

Reviewer 2: There's one important use case missing - when `getStaticProps` are used without ISR, then the default headers are similar to immutable assets (`s-maxage=31536000, stale-while-revalidate`), with aggressive cache headers set for long cache storage on CDN.

And given that page URLs are not changing with each deploy, customers who self-host Next.js will have scenarios of stale cache on their CDN's, without ability to override cache longevity settings for such pages.

This is where having control over `cache-control` headers would be very useful, but currently it's overridden by Next.js in production.

```jsx filename="next.config.js"
module.exports = {
  experimental: {
    incrementalCacheHandlerPath: require.resolve('./cache-handler.js'),
    isrMemoryCacheSize: 0, // disable default in-memory caching
  },
}
```

Then, create `cache-handler.js` in the root of your project. This file can save the cached values anywhere, like Redis or AWS S3, for example:

```jsx filename="cache-handler.js"
const cache = new Map()

module.exports = class CacheHandler {
  constructor(options) {
    this.options = options
    this.cache = {}
  }

  async get(key) {
    // This could be stored anywhere, like durable storage
    return cache.get(key)
  }

  async set(key, data, ctx) {
    // This could be stored anywhere, like durable storage
    cache.set(key, {
      value: data,
      lastModified: Date.now(),
      tags: ctx.tags,
    })
  }

  async revalidateTag(tag) {
    // Iterate over all entries in the cache
    for (let [key, value] of cache) {
      // If the value's tags include the specified tag, delete this entry
      if (value.tags.includes(tag)) {
        cache.delete(key)
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> Using a custom cache handler will allow you to ensure consistency across all pods hosting your Next.js application.

Reviewer 3: Hey @leerob, I noticed a lack of information about custom cache handlers in multi-instance setups. I created a one-step solution plus an example and template for Next.js. Please consider including or mentioning this example #58000 in the documentation.

I believe that the example I'm talking about could be a valuable addition to the new documentation. It provides a practical reference for users who want to implement a similar setup, which aligns with the documentation's goal of streamlining user understanding. It also ensures that users can fully utilize Next.js features in various self-hosting environments.

Author: Left a comment over there!

**Good to know:**

> - `revalidatePath` is a convenience layer on top of cache tags. Calling `revalidatePath` will call your `revalidateTag` function, which you can then choose if you want to tag cache keys based on the path.

Reviewer 4: > which you can then choose if you want to tag cache keys based on the path.

This line reads a bit strange to me, what is it trying to explain in particular? 

Maybe something like this:

```suggestion
- `revalidatePath` is a convenience layer on top of cache tags. Calling `revalidatePath` will call the `revalidateTag` function with a special default tag for the provided page.
```

### Build Cache

Next.js generates an ID during `next build` to identify which version of your application is being served. The same build should be used and boot up multiple containers.

If you are rebuilding for each stage of your environment, you will need to generate a consistent build ID to use between containers. Use the `generateBuildId` command in `next.config.js`:

```jsx filename="next.config.js"
module.exports = {
  generateBuildId: async () => {
    // This could be anything, using the latest git hash
    return process.env.GIT_HASH
  },
}
```

### Version Skew

Next.js will automatically mitigate most instances of [version skew](https://www.industrialempathy.com/posts/version-skew/) and automatically reload the application to retrieve new assets when detected. For example, if there is a mismatch in the build ID, transitions between pages will perform a hard navigation versus using a prefetched value.

> When the application is reloaded, there may be a loss of application state if it's not designed to persist between page navigations. For example, using URL state or local storage would persist state after a page refresh. However, component state like `useState` would be lost.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When the application is reloaded, there may be a loss of application state if it's not designed to persist between page navigations. For example, using URL state or local storage would persist state after a page refresh. However, component state like `useState` would be lost in such navigations.
```

To clarify that it only happens when you navigate

Vercel provides additional [skew protection](https://vercel.com/docs/deployments/skew-protection?utm_source=next-site&utm_medium=docs&utm_campaign=next-website) for Next.js applications to ensure assets and functions from the previous build are still available while the new build is being deployed.

> <PagesOnly>

Reviewer 4: The "Manual Graceful Shutdowns" section is relevant for App Router too

```js filename="pages/_document.js"
if (process.env.NEXT_MANUAL_SIG_HANDLE) {
  process.on('SIGTERM', () => {

>     console.log('Received SIGTERM: ', 'cleaning up')

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    console.log('Received SIGTERM: cleaning up')
```

    process.exit(0)
  })
  process.on('SIGINT', () => {

>     console.log('Received SIGINT: ', 'cleaning up')

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    console.log('Received SIGINT: cleaning up')
```
